Security is all about people,
processes, and technology.
It's a team effort, and
I mean that literally.
Protecting assets extends
well beyond one person or
a group of people in an IT department.
The truth of the matter is
that security is a culture.
It's a shared set of values that
spans all levels of an organization.
These values touch everyone, from
employees, to vendors, to customers.
Protecting digital and physical assets
requires everyone to participate,
which can be a challenge.
That's what security plans are for!
Plans come in many shapes and sizes, but
they all share a common goal:
to be prepared for risks when they happen.
Placing the focus on people is what leads
to the most effective security plans.
Considering the diverse backgrounds and
perspectives of everyone involved
ensures that no one is left out
when something goes wrong.
We talked earlier about the risk
as being anything that can impact
the confidentiality, integrity,
or availability of an asset.
Most security plans address
risks by breaking them down
according to categories and factors.
Some common risk categories might include,
the damage,
disclosure, or loss of information.
Any of these can be due to factors
like the physical damage or
malfunctions of a device.
There are also factors like attacks and
human error.
For example, a new school teacher may be
asked to sign a contract before their
first day of class.
The agreement may warn against some
common risks associated with human error,
like using a personal email to
send sensitive information.
A security plan may require that all
new hires sign off on this agreement,
effectively spreading the values
that ensure everyone's in alignment.
This is just one example of the types and
causes of risk that a plan might address.
These things vary widely
depending on the company.
But how these plans are communicated
is similar across industries.
Security plans consist of three
basic elements: policies, standards,
and procedures.
These three elements are how
companies share their security plans.
These words tend to be used
interchangeably outside of security, but
you'll soon discover that they each
have a very specific meaning and
function in this context.
A policy in security is a set of rules
that reduce risk and protects information.
Policies are the foundation
of every security plan.
They give everyone in and out of
an organization guidance by addressing
questions like,
what are we protecting and why?
Policies focus on the strategic side
of things by identifying the scope,
objectives, and
limitations of a security plan.
For instance,
newly hired employees at many companies
are required to sign off on
acceptable use policy, or AUP.
These provisions outline secure ways
that an employee may access corporate systems.
Standards are the next part.
These have a tactical function, as they
concern how well we're protecting assets.
In security, standards are references
that inform how to set policies.
A good way to think of standards is
that they create a point of reference.
For example, many companies use the
password management standard identified
in NIST Special Publication 800-63B
to improve their security policies
by specifying that employees' passwords
must be at least eight characters long.
The last part of a plan is its procedures.
Procedures are step-by-step instructions
to perform a specific security task.
Organizations usually keep multiple
procedure documents that are used
throughout the company, like how
employees can choose secure passwords,
or how they can securely reset
a password if it's been locked.
Sharing clear and actionable procedures
with everyone creates accountability,
consistency, and
efficiency across an organization.
Policies, standards, and
procedures vary widely from one company to
another because they are tailored
to each organization's goals.
Simply understanding the structure
of security plans is a great start.
For now, I hope you have a clearer
picture of what policies, standards, and
procedures are, and how they are essential
to making security a team effort.